# SQL-Challenge
Module 9 SQL Schemata and Analysis 

Brendan Golden 

SQL Assignment 

Going into this assignment, I was very excited to practice the SQL skills we were taught in class, and I think this module was beneficial and practical. I want to note that I collaborated with Chris Rahal and Nick Ortega to complete this module as we shared ideas and some code when coding the schematic and analytical components of the assignment. The beginning component of the assignment proved to be more challenging than I anticipated as I initially tried to create the six tables in the order in which the CSV files were presented in the provided resources file. After many failed attempts I decided to try a different approach as I needed to look at all of the tables, wholistically, and take some time to figure out the best sequence of creating the tables that have all of the required columns, in the right position, while also correctly identifying the primary keys and foreign keys, along with synthesizing the composite keys when necessary. After some careful thought and deliberation, we deduced one way in which to create the tables, in the correct order, which worked for considering all the necessary columns and variables, along with importing all the data into PostGre SQL. We first created and imported the department's table, followed sequentially by titles, employees, department employees, department managers, and then salaries. I would like to note that the department's table could be created in either the second or third position, as long as it was before the other department tables, as they required the creation of a composite key. After having created the requisite tables and imported the data, we moved on to the analytical component of the module, where we were required to implement basic, and advanced, techniques to query desired information. We intuitively progressed through all eight of the analysis questions using query methods.  We utilized basic methods of selecting specific columns, joining certain tables, and aggregate methods such as count and group by.  In conclusion, I feel the outcome was concise and accurate while presenting the necessary components of the module. 
